$Id: INSTALL.txt,v 1.3 2003/11/18 01:23:24 andya Exp $

Installing the Domino Redirector
--------------------------------

If necessary build dsapi_redirector2.dll as per the instructions in
BUILD.txt. Copy the DLL into the Domino program directory (this is the
directory, which may be called something like C:\Lotus\Domino, that
contains a file called nlnotes.exe). Shortly we will tell Domino where
to find this file, but before we do that we need to make some registry
entries. The simplest way is to edit the supplied file
dsapi_redirector2.reg, which initially will look like this

    Windows Registry Editor Version 5.00

    [HKEY_LOCAL_MACHINE\SOFTWARE\Apache Software Foundation\Jakarta Dsapi Redirector\2.0]
    "serverRoot"="D:\\Works\\Tomcat\\jakarta-tomcat-4.1.27"
    "workersFile"="conf\\workers2.properties"
    "tomcatStart"="bin\\startup.bat"
    "tomcatStop"="bin\\shutdown.bat"
    "tomcatTimeout"="30000"

Change serverRoot to reflect the location of your Tomcat installation.
The other filename parameters can either be relative to serverRoot or
absolute paths. Once edited double click on dsapi_redirector2.reg to
enter it into the registry.

Automatically Starting Tomcat
-----------------------------

The last three registry entries above provide commands that the
redirector DLL will use to start and stop Tomcat when the Domino http
server starts and stops respectively. If you don't require this
behaviour these two lines can be omitted (or deleted if you've already
placed them in the registry).

The Workers File
----------------

If necessary take the sample workers2.properties file from jakarta-
tomcat- connectors\jk\conf and place it in the location specified in the
registry settings above (typically the conf directory of your Tomcat
installation). Edit the file to suit your Tomcat setup.

Configuring Domino
------------------

Finally we need to configure Domino to use the DSAPI extension DLL. For
those who are unfamiliar with Domino server configuration most of a
server's configurable behavior is dictated by a document called the
"server document" in a database called the "Public Name and Address
Book" or "NAB" for short (N.B. Lotus have renamed the NAB to "Domino
Directory" from Domino 5 onwards). Each Domino server will have a NAB
(called names.nsf) and each NAB will have a number of server documents
including one for the current server. If you have not previously
configured a Domino server you may need to refer to the supplied
documentation, or you may need to pass this document to your tame Domino
administrator.

Assuming you know your way around a Domino server document what we're
going to do is actually quite simple. Open the server document for this
server, place it in Edit mode, then locate the DSAPI section and the
'DSAPI filter file names' field on the Internet Protocols tab, HTTP sub-
tab. Add "dsapi_redirector2.dll" to the DSAPI field, then save and close
the document.

Restart Domino
--------------

In order to get these settings to take effect and make sure that you
haven't disrupted anything else you should now restart the Domino
server. If the server is running as a service and you have changed any
relevant system variables (JAVA_HOME, TOMCAT_HOME, CLASSPATH) since the
last time you restarted the computer you should do a complete restart
now because updates to system variables are not seen by services until
after a reboot. If all goes well you should see something like this on
the server console when the web server starts up.

    14/11/2003 13:02:18   Attempting to start Tomcat: D:\Works\Tomcat\jakarta-tomcat-4.1.27\bin\startup.bat
    Using CATALINA_BASE:   D:\Works\Tomcat\jakarta-tomcat-4.1.27
    Using CATALINA_HOME:   D:\Works\Tomcat\jakarta-tomcat-4.1.27
    Using CATALINA_TMPDIR: D:\Works\Tomcat\jakarta-tomcat-4.1.27\temp
    Using JAVA_HOME:       C:\JBuilder8\jdk1.4
    14/11/2003 13:02:18   Apache Tomcat Interceptor (Jakarta/DSAPI/2.0.0) loaded
    14/11/2003 13:02:19   HTTP Web Server started

At about the same time Tomcat should open in a new window (assuming you
enabled the autostart option in the registry settings). You should now
be able to visit a URL that is handled by Tomcat. Something like

    http://name-of-server/servlet/SnoopServlet

may be available, depending on how Tomcat is configured. If that all
works you're done ;-)

Mailing Lists
-------------

There are two mailing lists dedicated to the Domino Tomcat redirector:

domino-tomcat-l:
 http://nomen.tagish.co.uk/mailman/listinfo/domino-tomcat-l

domino-tomcat-l is a general discussion list for issues with the
redirector and also wider Tomcat/Domino integration issues such as
calling the Domino Java API from a Tomcat servlet. I expect it to be
fairly low volume so please subscribe if you're actively using the
redirector. If you have an issue with the redirector please post it to
the list where it will be seen not only by me but by other users who may
be able to help with any problems.

domino-tomcat-announce-l:
 http://nomen.tagish.co.uk/mailman/listinfo/domino-tomcat-announce-l:

domino-tomcat-announce-l is for announcements about the Domino Tomcat
redirector. Mainly this list will be used for new releases but serious
bugs will also be posted to it. This list will be very low volume; only
I can post to it. I wouldn't expect more than a few posts per month. For
this reason if you'd like to keep track of new redirector versions
please subscribe to this list. From now on this list will be the main
place to find out about new versions.

Please let me know if you have any problems.

Andy Armstrong, <andy@tagish.com>
